Add documentation for context and ABC templates (#8197)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _im-plugin/index-context.md

---
layout: default
title: Index context
nav_order: 14
redirect_from:
  - /opensearch/index-context/
---

# Index context

> Context can be used to declare the use case for which you are building your index. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Context can be used to declare the use case the index is built for. 
```

> Using the context information, OpenSearch can apply a pre-determined set of settings, and mappings to do the heavy-lifting around ensuring:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the context information, OpenSearch will apply the pre-determined set of settings, and mappings to do the heavy-lifting to ensure:
```

> 1. Available performance optimizations are applied for the index.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Optimized performance for the index.
```

2. Existing settings are tuned according to the use-case.

> 3. Mappings/Aliases based on [OpenSearch Integrations]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/integrations/)  are applied on the index if applicable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Accurate Mappings/Aliases based on [OpenSearch Integrations]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/integrations/)  are applied on the index if applicable.
```

> These metadata parameters applied are backed by component templates which are automatically loaded when your cluster comes up. These component templates are prefixed with `@abc_template@`, and can only be used based on the usage pattern outlined in this document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These settings and metadata configuration that are applied is powered by component templates which are automatically loaded when your cluster comes up. These component templates are prefixed with `@abc_template@`, and can only be used based on the usage pattern outlined in this document.
```

{: .important}

The `context` parameter is available on indices and index templates as an experimental feature starting OpenSearch 2.17
{: .warning}

## Usage

### Installation

In order to use the `context` field while creating an index or index-template:

1. Install the `opensearch-system-templates` plugin on all nodes in your cluster using one of the [installation methods]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/plugins/#install)
2. Set the feature flag `opensearch.experimental.feature.application_templates.enabled` to `true`. For more information about enabling and disabling feature flags, see [Enabling experimental features]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/configuring-opensearch/experimental/).

> 3. Enable setting `cluster.application_templates.enabled` to `true`. See [configuring settings]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/configuring-opensearch/index/#static-settings) for steps on how to do this.

Reviewer 2: @mgodwan do we need 2 settings? experimental and cluster setting?

Author: Yes, the other setting is to ensure that once feature flag is removed, users still have a way to opt-in/out of using this

### Create Index

> For example, if you are using your indices to store metrics data, you can declare `metrics` as a context on your index:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if you are using your indices to store metrics data, you can declare `metrics` as the context on your index:
```

````
```json
PUT /my-metrics-index
{
  "context": {
    "name": "metrics"
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}
````

> After creation, the index will have the context added to it, and also few settings applied:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After creation, the index will have the context added to it, and also have few settings applied:
```

1. When you create an index using `context` field, any settings which are declared in context cannot be provided as part of index creation, or dynamic settings updates.
2. Once set on an index/index-template, context cannot be removed from it.

The above points ensure that at any point, the recommended settings/mappings are always applied on the indices.

### Create Index Templates

You can also provide the `context` parameter while creating index templates:

````
```json
PUT _index_template/my-logs
{
    "context": {
        "name": "logs",
        "version": "1"
    },
    "index_patterns": [
        "my-logs-*"
    ]
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}
````

````
```json
GET _index_template/my-logs
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}
````

````
```json
{
    "index_templates": [
        {
            "name": "my-logs2",
            "index_template": {
                "index_patterns": [
                    "my-logs1-*"
                ],
                "context": {
                    "name": "logs",
                    "version": "1"
                }
            }
        }
    ]
}
```
````

> This will create an index template with the context information as `logs`, and all indices created via this index template will get the metadata provided by the associated component template.

Reviewer 2: check other documentation what have we used "indices" or "indexes"?

Reviewer 3: We use "indexes". I'll make this switch when I modify the file.

If there is any overlap between settings/mappings/aliases declared by your template directly and the same coming through the backing component template for the context, the latter gets higher priority during index creation.

## Available Templates for Context

> Following templates are available to be used through the `context` parameter as of today:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Following templates are available to be used through the `context` parameter as of OpenSearch 2.17:
```

1. logs
2. metrics
3. nginx-logs
4. amazon-cloudtrail-logs
5. amazon-elb-logs
6. amazon-s3-logs
7. apache-web-logs
8. k8s-logs

To see more details on what these templates provide, please take a look at the [repository](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-system-templates/tree/d71e12588e3144ad0fd26745d084ba49e9e08349/src/main/resources/org/opensearch/system/applicationtemplates/v1).

> You can also check the current version of these templates installed on your cluster through `GET /_component_template`

Reviewer 2: this will give all the component template? should we provide a filtered. request to show only context component templates

Reviewer 3: What would the filter be @shwetathareja?

Author: Yes, I've a PR for that in core. We will be able to take it in the next release.

---
layout: default
title: Index context
nav_order: 14
redirect_from:
  - /opensearch/index-context/
---

# Index context

This is an experimental feature and is not recommended for use in a production environment. For updates on the progress the feature or if you want to leave feedback, join the discussion in the [OpenSearch forum](https://forum.opensearch.org/).    
{: .warning}

Index Context declares the use case for an index. Using the context information, OpenSearch applies a pre-determined set of settings and mappings to do the heavy-lifting to ensure. When given the correct context, context provides indexes with:

- Optimized performance.
- Settings tuned to your specific use case.
- Accurate mappings and aliases based on [OpenSearch Integrations]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/integrations/).

> The settings and metadata configuration that are applied using component templates are automatically loaded when your cluster starts. The templates for the components start with `@abc_template@`. To prevent potential configuration issues, only use `@abc_template@` the way it’s described on this page.

Reviewer 3: @mgodwan: Where do we mention `abc_template`s?

Author: This should be ok to be mentioned here only.

> The settings and metadata configuration that are applied using component templates are automatically loaded when your cluster starts. The templates for the components start with `@abc_template@`. To prevent potential configuration issues, only use `@abc_template@` the way it’s described on this page.

Author: ```suggestion
The settings and metadata configuration that are applied using component templates are automatically loaded when your cluster starts. These component templates start with `@abc_template@`. To prevent potential configuration issues, you can only use `@abc_template@` the way it’s described on this page.

Reviewer 3: How is a an application based component template different from a run of the mill component template? Do we have a code example we can show?

> These settings and metadata configuration that are applied using component templates which are automatically loaded when your cluster comes up. The templates for the components start with `@abc_template@`. To prevent potential configuration issues, only use `@abc_template@` the way it’s described on this page.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The settings and metadata configuration that are applied using component templates are automatically loaded when your cluster starts. The templates for the components start with `@abc_template@`. To prevent potential configuration issues, only use `@abc_template@` the way it’s described on this page.
```

2. Set the feature flag `opensearch.experimental.feature.application_templates.enabled` to `true`. For more information about enabling and disabling feature flags, see [Enabling experimental features]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/configuring-opensearch/experimental/).

3. Set the `cluster.application_templates.enabled` setting to `true`. For instructions on how to configure OpenSearch, see [configuring settings]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/configuring-opensearch/index/#static-settings).

## Using the `context` setting.

Use the `context` setting with the Index API to add use-case specific context.

### Considerations

Consider the following when using the `context` parameter during index creation:

1. If you use the `context` field to create an index, you cannot include any settings declared in context during index creation or dynamic settings updates.
2. Context becomes permanent when set on an index or index-template.

When you adhere to these limitations, suggested configurations or mappings are uniformly applied on indexed data within the specified context.

> ### Examples

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Examples

The following examples show how to use index context.

```

---
layout: default
title: Index context
nav_order: 14
redirect_from:
  - /opensearch/index-context/
---

# Index context

> This is an experimental feature and is not recommended for use in a production environment. For updates on the progress the feature or if you want to leave feedback, join the discussion in the [OpenSearch forum](https://forum.opensearch.org/).    

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This is an experimental feature and is not recommended for use in a production environment. For updates on the progress the feature or if you want to leave feedback, join the discussion on the [OpenSearch forum](https://forum.opensearch.org/).    
```

{: .warning}

> Index Context declares the use case for an index. Using the context information, OpenSearch applies a pre-determined set of settings and mappings, which gives the following benefits:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Index context declares the use case for an index. Using the context information, OpenSearch applies a predetermined set of settings and mappings, which provides the following benefits:
```

> - Optimized performance.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Optimized performance
```

> Index Context declares the use case for an index. Using the context information, OpenSearch applies a pre-determined set of settings and mappings to do the heavy-lifting to ensure. When given the correct context, context provides indexes with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Index Context declares the use case for an index. Using the context information, OpenSearch applies a pre-determined set of settings and mappings to do the heavy-lifting to ensure:
```

> - Settings tuned to your specific use case.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Settings tuned to your specific use case
```

> - Accurate mappings and aliases based on [OpenSearch Integrations]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/integrations/).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Accurate mappings and aliases based on [OpenSearch Integrations]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/integrations/)
```

> The settings and metadata configuration that are applied using component templates are automatically loaded when your cluster starts. Component templates that start with `@abc_template@` or Application Based Configuration (ABC) templates can only be used through a `context` object declaration, in order to prevent configuration issues.

Reviewer 4: "Application-Based Configuration (ABC)"?

> The settings and metadata configuration that are applied using component templates are automatically loaded when your cluster starts. Component templates that start with `@abc_template@` or Application Based Configuration (ABC) templates can only be used through a `context` object declaration, in order to prevent configuration issues.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The settings and metadata configuration that are applied using component templates are automatically loaded when your cluster starts. Component templates that start with `@abc_template@` or Application-Based Configuration (ABC) templates can only be used through a `context` object declaration, in order to prevent configuration issues.
```

> The settings and metadata configuration that are applied using component templates are automatically loaded when your cluster starts. These component templates start with `@abc_template@` or Application Based Configuration (ABC) templates. To prevent potential configuration issues, you can only use ABC templates the way it’s described on this page, through a `context` object declaration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The settings and metadata configuration that are applied using component templates are automatically loaded when your cluster starts. Component templates that start with `@abc_template@` or Application Based Configuration (ABC) templates can only be used through a `context` object declaration, in order to prevent potential configuration issues.
```

{: .warning}

## Installation

To install the index context feature:

> 1. Install the `opensearch-system-templates` plugin on all nodes in your cluster using one of the [installation methods]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/plugins/#install)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Install the `opensearch-system-templates` plugin on all nodes in your cluster using one of the [installation methods]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/plugins/#install).
```

2. Set the feature flag `opensearch.experimental.feature.application_templates.enabled` to `true`. For more information about enabling and disabling feature flags, see [Enabling experimental features]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/configuring-opensearch/experimental/).

3. Set the `cluster.application_templates.enabled` setting to `true`. For instructions on how to configure OpenSearch, see [configuring settings]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/configuring-opensearch/index/#static-settings).

> ## Using the `context` setting.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Using the `context` setting
```

> Use the `context` setting with the Index API to add use-case specific context.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Use the `context` setting with the Index API to add use-case-specific context.
```

### Considerations

Consider the following when using the `context` parameter during index creation:

> 

Reviewer 4: Below: "field" => "parameter"?

> 1. If you use the `context` field to create an index, you cannot include any settings declared in context during index creation or dynamic settings updates.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. If you use the `context` field to create an index, you cannot include any settings declared in the index context during index creation or dynamic settings updates.
```

> 2. Context becomes permanent when set on an index or index-template.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
2. The index context becomes permanent when set on an index or index template.
```

When you adhere to these limitations, suggested configurations or mappings are uniformly applied on indexed data within the specified context.

### Examples

The following examples show how to use index context.

> #### Create Index

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Create index
```

> #### Create index

Reviewer 4: "Create an index"?

> #### Create index

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Create an index
```

> The following example request creates an index to store metrics data by declaring a `metrics` mapping as the context:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The following example request creates an index in which to store metric data by declaring a `metrics` mapping as the context:
```

```json
PUT /my-metrics-index
{
  "context": {
    "name": "metrics"
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> After creation, the index will have the context added to it, and also have corresponding settings applied:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
After creation, the context is added to the index and the corresponding settings are applied:
```

> After creation, the index will have the context added to it, and also have few settings applied:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After creation, the index will have the context added to it, and also have corresponding settings applied:
```

**GET request**

```json
GET /my-metrics-index
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

**Response**

```json
{
    "my-metrics-index": {
        "aliases": {},
        "mappings": {},
        "settings": {
            "index": {
                "codec": "zstd_no_dict",
                "refresh_interval": "60s",
                "number_of_shards": "1",
                "provided_name": "my-metrics-index",
                "merge": {
                    "policy": "log_byte_size"
                },
                "context": {
                    "created_version": "1",
                    "current_version": "1"
                },
                ...
            }
        },
        "context": {
            "name": "metrics",
            "version": "_latest"
        }
    }
}
```

> #### Create index templates

Reviewer 4: "Create an index template"?

> #### Create index templates

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Create an index templates
```

> #### Create an index templates

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#### Create an index template
```

> You can also use the `context` parameter when creating an index template. The following example request creates an index template with the context information as `logs`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can also use the `context` parameter when creating an index template. The following example request creates an index template with the context information as `logs`:
```

```json
PUT _index_template/my-logs
{
    "context": {
        "name": "logs",
        "version": "1"
    },
    "index_patterns": [
        "my-logs-*"
    ]
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> All indexes created using this index template will get the metadata provided by the associated component template. The following request and response shows how `context` is added to the template:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
All indexes created using this index template will get the metadata provided by the associated component template. The following request and response show how `context` is added to the template:
```

**Get index template**

```json
GET _index_template/my-logs
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

**Response**

```json
{
    "index_templates": [
        {
            "name": "my-logs2",
            "index_template": {
                "index_patterns": [
                    "my-logs1-*"
                ],
                "context": {
                    "name": "logs",
                    "version": "1"
                }
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

> If there is any overlap between any settings, mappings, or aliases declared by your template directly and the backing component template for the context, the latter gets higher priority during index creation.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If there is any overlap between any settings, mappings, or aliases directly declared by your template and the backing component template for the context, the latter gets higher priority during index creation.
```

> 

Reviewer 4: Above: "overlap" => "conflict"?

> ## Available templates for context

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Available context templates
```
